# SDN Host Discovery using POX and Mininet

## Problem Statement
This project implements a Host Discovery Service in Software Defined Networking (SDN) using a POX controller. The goal is to dynamically detect hosts in the network and maintain their information, including MAC address, switch ID, and port number.

## Tools Used
* Mininet
* POX Controller
* OpenFlow
* Ubuntu (Virtual Machine)
* Wireshark (Packet analysis)
  
## Features
* Dynamically detects hosts connected to the network
* Maintains host information (MAC address, switch, port)
* Implements basic learning switch functionality
* Installs flow rules using OpenFlow
* Handles packet_in events from switches
* Performs packet forwarding using flooding
* Packet-level verification using Wireshark

## How It Works
1)When a switch receives a packet without a matching flow rule, it sends a PacketIn event to the controller.
2)The controller extracts:
*Source MAC address
*Switch ID (DPID)
*Incoming port
3)The host information is stored in a dictionary.
4)The controller logs newly detected hosts.
5)The packet is flooded to ensure communication.
6)Subsequent packets confirm connectivity between hosts.

## Execution Steps

### Step 1: Start the POX Controller
```bash
cd ~/pox
./pox.py host_discovery
```

### Step 2: Start Mininet with Remote Controller
```bash
sudo mn --controller=remote,ip=127.0.0.1,port=6633
```

### Step 3: Test Connectivity
```bash
pingall
```

## Output
* Successful communication between hosts (0% packet loss)
* Hosts are detected dynamically and displayed in the controller logs

## Wireshark Analysis
Wireshark was used to capture and analyze real-time packets generated by the SDN network.

Steps:
1)Launched Wireshark:
```bash
wireshark
```
2)Selected interface: enp0s3
3)Started packet capture
3)Ran Mininet and executed pingall

Observations:
*ARP packets → Used for host discovery
*ICMP packets → Used for ping communication
*OpenFlow messages → Communication between switch and controller

Conclusion:
Wireshark confirms that:
*Hosts are being discovered dynamically
*Packets are correctly forwarded
*Controller and switches are communicating properly

## Author
Vismaya Harish
